1. What advantages do Excel spreadsheets have over CSV spreadsheets?

Excel spreadsheets offer several advantages over CSV spreadsheets:

Formatting: Excel supports cell formatting, such as font styles, colors, and borders, which CSV does not.
Formulas: Excel allows complex calculations and formulas directly within the spreadsheet.
Multiple Sheets: Excel can handle multiple sheets within a single file, whereas CSV is limited to a single sheet.
Data Validation: Excel provides tools for data validation, drop-down lists, and error checking.
Charts and Graphs: Excel offers advanced charting and graphing capabilities for visual data analysis.
Macros: Excel supports macros for automating repetitive tasks.


2.What do you pass to csv.reader() and csv.writer() to create reader and writer objects?

csv.reader(file): Reads from the CSV file object and allows iteration over rows.
csv.writer(file): Writes to the CSV file object and allows writing rows of data.

3. What modes do File objects for reader and writer objects need to be opened in?

For csv.reader:
Mode: Read mode ('r').
Purpose: To read data from the CSV file.

Mode: Write mode ('w'), or append mode ('a').
Purpose: To write data to the CSV file. newline='' is typically used to avoid extra blank lines.

4. What method takes a list argument and writes it to a CSV file?

import csv

# Open a CSV file in write mode
with open('file.csv', 'w', newline='') as file:
    writer = csv.writer(file)
    
    # Write a list as a single row to the CSV file
    writer.writerow(['Header1', 'Header2', 'Header3'])
    
    # Write another list as a row
    writer.writerow(['Value1', 'Value2', 'Value3'])


5. What do the keyword arguments delimiter and line terminator do?

delimiter: Sets the character that separates fields in the CSV file.
lineterminator: Sets the character(s) used to terminate each line (row) in the CSV file.

6. What function takes a string of JSON data and returns a Python data structure?

json.loads(json_string): Parses the JSON string json_string and returns the corresponding Python data structure, such as a dictionary or list.

7. What function takes a Python data structure and returns a string of JSON data?

json.dumps(data): Converts the Python data structure data (e.g., dictionary, list) into a JSON-formatted string.





