1. To what does a relative path refer?

	A relative path refers to the location of a file or directory relative to the current working directory of the program or environment. It is a 	shorthand path that doesn't start from the root directory of the filesystem but instead is based on the position of the current directory you're 	working in.
	Key Points:
	Relative Path: Specifies a file or directory by starting from the current directory (rather than the root directory).
	Current Working Directory: The directory where the program is currently running.
	Symbols:
	. refers to the current directory.
	.. refers to the parent directory (one level up).

2. What does an absolute path start with your operating system?
	
	An absolute path starts from the root directory of your operating system and specifies the full path to a file or directory. 
	Example: C:\Users\user\Documents\file.txt

3. What do the functions os.getcwd() and os.chdir() do?

	OS.getcwd -- get cureentworking directory
	os.chdir -- changeDirectory

4. What are the . and .. folders?
	
	. refer to current directory
	.. refer to parent directory

5. In C:\bacon\eggs\spam.txt, which part is the dir name, and which part is the base name?

	Directory Path: C:\bacon\eggs
	Base Name: spam.txt


6. What are the three “mode” arguments that can be passed to the open() function?
	
	f = open('filename', 'r')  # Opens the file in read mode
	f = open('filename', 'w')  # Opens the file in write mode
	f = open('filename', 'a')  # Opens the file in append mode

7. What happens if an existing file is opened in write mode?

	When an existing file is opened in write mode ('w'), the following happens:

	File Truncation: The file is truncated, meaning that its contents are cleared. All existing data in the file is removed.
	New Data: Any new data you write to the file will replace the old data. The file will only contain the new data you write, as the previous content 	has been erased.
	
8. How do you tell the difference between read() and readlines()?

	Use read() when you need the whole file content as a single string.
	Use readlines() when you need to process the file line by line.

9. What data structure does a shelf value resemble?

	A shelf is a dictionary-like object with the added feature of persistence, allowing you to save and load data from a file on disk.

	